---
title: "Converting my Website to TypeScript"
subject: "Showcase"
description: "The process of converting my website/blog to TypeScript"
id: 6
hidden: "yes"
---

The second iteration of my website was written in plain JavaScript and had a lot of bloat.  There were unused imports and functions, the code was inefficient, and the style sheets were a mess.  Because of this, over the past week I have been working on rebuilding my website using TypeScript.

I rewrote the entire website using mostly TypeScript.  There are some assets that I was able to reuse from the previous iteration that are written in JavaScript.

This post will show off some of the differences between Version 2 and Version 3.

<details>
<summary>Sections</summary>

- [V2 vs. V3: Overview](#overview)
- [Home Page](#home-page)

</details>

## Version 2 vs Version 3: Overview <a name='overview'></a>
__*Note: The index page on Version 3 is still under development and will undergo future changes*__

### Home Page

As you can see, many of the assets from the previous iteration are kept the same on this page.  The background, header, and 2 blog posts on the page are the same in both cases.  However, in Version 3, the blog posts shown on the Home Page are given their own React Component, written in TypeScript.


### About Page

The About Page in both cases is almost identical.  The only change made in Version 3 is the content on the page being wider. 

### Blog Page

As with the Home Page, a new React Component was created for blog posts on the Blog Page.

Another change that was made from Version 2 to Version 3 is the blog post routes.  In Version 2, the path to the blog post in the filesystem, for example, `/Published/5.Polybar-Configuration/` was passed to the function that created the page and rendered the blog post.  As a result the path to the blog post would end up being `https://sudacode.com/Published/5.Polybar-Configuration`

In Version 3, I added logic to modify the slug and with it the route to the blog post.  I made it so that `/Published/5.Polybar-Configuration/` would become `blog/Polybar-Configuration`.

The logic I added parses out the title of the blog post and appends it to the end of the `/blog/` string to create the new slug.

## Travel Page

In Version 2, I rendered a premade Component that I created for another project.  Version 3, however, was completely redone using TypeScript.

The All Locations page was also given a new route: `/travel/all-locations`

## Home Page <a name='home-page'></a>
As mentioned in the overview, the Home Page is still currently under development.

In Version 3, I Created a Component for a blog post to be rendered on the Home Page.