---
title: "Setting up Dunst for Desktop Notifications"
date: "04/24/2021"
description: "My process for setting up and configuring dunst desktop notifications in Arch Linux, running the i3 window manager."
subject: "Setup"
hidden: "yes"
id: 6
---

<details>

<summary><h2>Sections <span style="font-size: 12px">(Expandable)</span></h2></summary>

- [Why Dunst](#why-dunst)
- [Installation](#install)
- [Configuration](#config)
- [Volume Notification](#volume)

</details>

## Why Dunst? <a name="why-dunst"></a>

When I first started daily driving Arch Linux with KDE and the i3 window manager, the default KDE desktop notifications worked out of the box and there were no issues.  I was able to configure and style them to my liking.  However, about a month into using it, it stopped working one day and I have not been able to get it working since.

Because of that, I've been searching for an alternative and I landed on dunst.  Dunst is a ___"A highly configurable and lightweight notification daemon"___.  These were the two things that I was looking for in a notification daemon.


## Installation <a name="install"></a>
The installaction process on Arch Linux is very simple.  Simply run the following command as superuser and complete the install.
	
	$ pacman -S dunst

## Configuration <a name="config"></a>

The example configuration file can be found at `/usr/share/dunst/dunstrc`.  And it should be copied over to `~/.config/dunst/dunstrc`.


My `dunstrc` can be found in my [Sudacode-Rice GitHub Repository](https://github.com/ksyasuda/Sudacode-Rice) or directly [here](https://github.com/ksyasuda/Sudacode-Rice/blob/dev/dunst/dunstrc)

There are many configuration options, but the most important for me were `geometry`, `padding`, `max/max_icon_size` and `urgency`.

# TODO: configuration

After the initial configuration was set up, there were basic desktop
notifications for network connection/disconnection as well as system events or
alerts.

There were still a few things missing that I wanted to add:

In no particular order:

- Notification for volume change
- Notification for media controls (mpd)
- Notification for bluetooth connect/disconnect


## Volume Notification <a name='volume'></a>
Setting up notifications for volume controls was relatively easy.  

I created a __python__ script that is passed one argument when run.  The
argument given to the script is either _increase_, _decrease_, or _mute_.

If either _increase_ or _decrease_ is passed in, the script runs `pulsemixer
--get-volume` to get the current volume level.  Based on the value, the
corresponding icon is chosen and its path is passed to the final dunst output.

If _mute_ is passed in, the script runs `pulsemixer --get-mute` to get whether
or not the system is muted.  Based on that fact, the appropriate icon is chosen.

All that is left is to run the `dunstify` command, which is what you use  to
create dunst notifications.  

The final command looks like this:

	dunstify -i {icon_path} -h "Volume: {volume}%" -h int:value{volume}

The `-i` argument, as you can see, is the path to the icon you want to display
with the notification.

The first `-h` will be the first line of the notification, which displays "Volume:
" and then the value received from `pulsemixer --get-volume`.  The second `-h`
with the `int:value` indicates that it will display a progress bar that is
{volume/100} full.

The problem is however, if we just called `dunstify` with all the
relevant information for each time the volume is changed, we would get a
separate notification each time as well.  That is not what we want and so. 
